---
layout: post
title: "The Tale of the Lazy SME"
date: 2025-06-13
category: reflections
tags:
- opinion
- machine-intelligence
image: "/seo/2025-06-13.png"
published: true

redirect_from:
- /machine-intelligence/2025/06/13/lazy-sme.html

---

## There was a lazy subject matter expert...

He wanted to be helpful, but he didn't want it to require a lot of effort. He thought, "The machine intelligence apparatus will be useful for sharing my knowledge efficiently."

And so he spent days and weeks and months to create the ultimate documentation of his work so that he could share it with others at no more expense of his time. 

But what he failed to realize was that it was his time that made the work meaningful. 

Because the work was for other people, the individual doing the contributing was more important in the recipe of a matrix organization than the contribution of the individual.

The machine intelligence was not thinking about other people, not the way the individual does.

And so, as he automatically routed the questions others asked of him to be answered by a machine instead of a person, people learned to stop asking him questions.

Then, all the time he spent developing a machine intelligence so he could be lazy was thusly wasted.

## And then he led the Butlerian Jihad. THE END.

---

### elsewhere, on the internet

<blockquote class="bluesky-embed" data-bluesky-uri="at://did:plc:tjk5ddnhhjm5ndhvhubi4xwn/app.bsky.feed.post/3lqoiswt3l222" data-bluesky-cid="bafyreiejk2fs2jgkdx3n65mbtmfiecqmgliv3xuzty5dkr2qnchouzuhiu" data-bluesky-embed-color-mode="system"><p lang="en">I updated my Letterboxd profile picture

SINNERS is a religious experience to me

I&#x27;m happy to suggest the weight of that impact by this change, as I don&#x27;t plan to use this picture anywhere else

Clarksdale, MS, is a place to meet God, if you care to listen for her<br><br><a href="https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:tjk5ddnhhjm5ndhvhubi4xwn/post/3lqoiswt3l222?ref_src=embed">[image or embed]</a></p>&mdash; michael lamb (<a href="https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:tjk5ddnhhjm5ndhvhubi4xwn?ref_src=embed">@michaellamb.dev</a>) <a href="https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:tjk5ddnhhjm5ndhvhubi4xwn/post/3lqoiswt3l222?ref_src=embed">June 2, 2025 at 11:55 PM</a></blockquote><script async src="https://embed.bsky.app/static/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
